Poor Narrative Writing Sample:
We went to the museum. There was dinosaurs. A t-rex was big. There was other stuff too. I got a toy. then we went home. It was cool.

Poor Informative Writing Sample:
Volcanos are mountains with lava. The lava is hot rock. It comes out the top. Sometimes they explode.

Poor Opinion/Persuasive Writing Sample:
You should read my favorite book. Its about a kid. He does magic. its good so you should read it.

Average Narrative Writing Sample:
My family and I went on a hike last Saturday. The path was very rocky. I saw a squirrel run up a tree with a nut in its mouth. My little sister got tired so my dad had to carry her. When we got to the top, we could see the whole town. We ate our sandwiches and then hiked back down.

Average Informative Writing Sample:
Jupiter is the biggest planet in our solar system. It is a gas giant, mostly made of gases. Jupiter has a Great Red Spot, a giant storm lasting hundreds of years. It also has many moons.

Average Opinion/Persuasive Writing Sample:
I think kids should get an allowance for doing chores. If kids get paid, they will want to help more around the house. They can learn to save their money to buy something they want. It teaches them about work and money.

Strong Narrative Writing Sample:
The old treehouse felt like a secret castle. One afternoon, my friend Leo and I decided to make it our spy headquarters. We wrote a secret code and made a password, "Dragonfly." We used binoculars to watch the "enemy" (my neighbor's cat). Suddenly, we heard rustling in the bushes below! We held our breath, but it was just my mom bringing us cookies and lemonade. Even spies need a snack break.

Strong Informative Writing Sample:
Dolphins are intelligent marine mammals known for playful behavior. They are not fish; they breathe air through a blowhole. Dolphins use echolocation to navigate and find food. They send high-pitched sounds that bounce off objects, telling location, size, and shape. They live in social groups called pods.

Strong Opinion/Persuasive Writing Sample:
Our school needs a better recycling program. Every day, I see paper, plastic, and cans thrown in the regular trash, harming our environment. If we had labeled recycling bins in every classroom and the cafeteria, students and teachers could recycle easily. It’s a small change making a huge difference.